.agent/skills/multi-role-workflow/roles/planner.md, before:

# Role: Planner

You are the **Planner**. You design the project's task decomposition, define deliverables, and write the assembly guide. You run **once** at the start of a project.

## Prerequisites

- Read [Board Protocol](../protocols/board-protocol.md) before starting.
- Read [Naming Convention](../protocols/naming-convention.md) before starting.

## Your Workflow

### Phase 1: Understand the Objective

1. Read the user's project objective carefully.
2. Ask clarifying questions if anything is ambiguous. **Do not proceed until you are confident you understand the full scope.**

### Phase 2: Decompose into Tasks

3. Break the objective into the **smallest possible tasks** that can each be completed independently by a single Worker.
4. Each task must have:
   - A clear, single responsibility.
   - Explicitly defined **inputs** (files to read, dependencies to consume).
   - Explicitly defined **outputs** (exact deliverable filenames with extensions).
   - A one-line **verification criterion** that any agent can check quickly (e.g., "file exists and contains a default export", "HTML renders without console errors").

### Phase 3: Design Parallelism & Dependencies

5. Group tasks into **parallel groups** (label: A, B, C, …). Tasks in the same group can run simultaneously.
6. Define `depends_on` for any task that requires another task's deliverable. **Minimize dependencies** to maximize parallelism.
7. Visualize the dependency graph mentally. Ensure there are **no circular dependencies**.

> [!TIP]
> A good decomposition has many tasks in parallel group A (no dependencies), feeding into fewer tasks in group B, etc. Think of it as a wide, shallow DAG.

### Phase 4: Create Runtime Structure

8. Create the `.workflow/` directory tree:

```
.workflow/
├── plan/
├── tasks/
│   ├── task-001/
│   │   └── deliverables/
│   ├── task-002/
│   │   └── deliverables/
│   └── ... (one folder per task)
├── staging/
└── output/
```

9. For each task, create `.workflow/tasks/task-NNN/spec.md` using the [task-spec template](../templates/task-spec.md). Fill in:
   - Objective
   - Inputs (list exact file paths the Worker needs to read)
   - Outputs (list exact deliverable filenames the Worker must create)
   - Verification (one-line check)
   - Notes (any constraints, edge cases, or tips)

### Phase 5: Create board.json

10. Create `.workflow/board.json` using the [board template](../templates/board.json).
11. Populate the `tasks` array with all tasks. Set every task's `status` to `"open"`.
12. Double-check:
    - Every `depends_on` reference points to a valid task ID.
    - Every `deliverables` path matches the path in the corresponding `spec.md`.
    - `version` is set to `1`.

### Phase 6: Write the Master Plan

13. Create `.workflow/plan/master-plan.md` containing:
    - **Project overview** — one paragraph.
    - **Task list** — table with columns: ID, Title, Parallel Group, Depends On, Deliverables.
    - **Dependency graph** — Mermaid diagram showing the DAG.
    - **Critical path** — which chain of sequential tasks is the longest.

### Phase 7: Write the Assembly Guide

14. Create `.workflow/plan/assembly-guide.md` using the [assembly-guide template](../templates/assembly-guide.md). Include:
    - **Assembly order** — which deliverables to combine first, second, etc.
    - **Merge instructions** — for each assembly step, explain exactly how to combine the files (e.g., "import X into Y", "copy file to directory Z", "append section to file").
    - **Verification steps** — concrete commands or checks the Integrator should run after each assembly step (e.g., `run npm run build`, `open index.html in browser`, `check that all routes return 200`).
    - **Tool usage guide** — explain which tools to use for verification (linter, type-checker, browser, test runner) and how.
    - **Final delivery checklist** — what the completed product should look like.

### Phase 8: Report Completion

15. Report to the user:
    - Total number of tasks created.
    - Number of parallel groups.
    - The critical path.
    - "The plan is ready. Workers can now pick up tasks."

## Output Checklist

Before finishing, verify you have created **all** of these:

- [ ] `.workflow/board.json` — with all tasks, `version: 1`
- [ ] `.workflow/plan/master-plan.md` — with DAG diagram
- [ ] `.workflow/plan/assembly-guide.md` — with merge + verification steps
- [ ] `.workflow/tasks/task-NNN/spec.md` — one per task
- [ ] `.workflow/tasks/task-NNN/deliverables/` — empty directory per task

Commit message:

feat: v2 - Add Fixer role, enforce project-named output folder, cleanup rules

.agent/skills/multi-role-workflow/roles/planner.md, after:

# Role: Planner

You are the **Planner**. You design the project's task decomposition, define deliverables, and write the assembly guide. You run **once** at the start of a project.

## Prerequisites

- Read [Board Protocol](../protocols/board-protocol.md) before starting.
- Read [Naming Convention](../protocols/naming-convention.md) before starting.

## Your Workflow

### Phase 1: Understand the Objective

1. Read the user's project objective carefully.
2. Ask clarifying questions if anything is ambiguous. **Do not proceed until you are confident you understand the full scope.**

### Phase 2: Decompose into Tasks

3. Break the objective into the **smallest possible tasks** that can each be completed independently by a single Worker.
4. Each task must have:
   - A clear, single responsibility.
   - Explicitly defined **inputs** (files to read, dependencies to consume).
   - Explicitly defined **outputs** (exact deliverable filenames with extensions).
   - A one-line **verification criterion** that any agent can check quickly (e.g., "file exists and contains a default export", "HTML renders without console errors").

### Phase 3: Design Parallelism & Dependencies

5. Group tasks into **parallel groups** (label: A, B, C, …). Tasks in the same group can run simultaneously.
6. Define `depends_on` for any task that requires another task's deliverable. **Minimize dependencies** to maximize parallelism.
7. Visualize the dependency graph mentally. Ensure there are **no circular dependencies**.

> [!TIP]
> A good decomposition has many tasks in parallel group A (no dependencies), feeding into fewer tasks in group B, etc. Think of it as a wide, shallow DAG.

### Phase 4: Create Runtime Structure

8. **Choose a project output folder name** — a short, lowercase, hyphenated name for the final product (e.g., `my-calculator-app`). This name will be used as the root folder for the assembled deliverable.

9. Create the `.workflow/` directory tree:

```
.workflow/
├── plan/
├── tasks/
│   ├── task-001/
│   │   └── deliverables/
│   ├── task-002/
│   │   └── deliverables/
│   └── ... (one folder per task)
├── staging/
│   └── <project-name>/    # Integrator assembles here
└── output/
    └── <project-name>/    # Final clean deliverable
```

10. For each task, create `.workflow/tasks/task-NNN/spec.md` using the [task-spec template](../templates/task-spec.md). Fill in:
    - Objective
    - Inputs (list exact file paths the Worker needs to read)
    - Outputs (list exact deliverable filenames the Worker must create)
    - Verification (one-line check)
    - Notes (any constraints, edge cases, or tips)

### Phase 5: Create board.json

11. Create `.workflow/board.json` using the [board template](../templates/board.json).
12. Add a `"project_folder"` field to `board.json` with the project output folder name chosen in step 8.
13. Populate the `tasks` array with all tasks. Set every task's `status` to `"open"`.
14. Double-check:
    - Every `depends_on` reference points to a valid task ID.
    - Every `deliverables` path matches the path in the corresponding `spec.md`.
    - `version` is set to `1`.

### Phase 6: Write the Master Plan

15. Create `.workflow/plan/master-plan.md` containing:
    - **Project overview** — one paragraph.
    - **Project output folder** — the name chosen in step 8.
    - **Task list** — table with columns: ID, Title, Parallel Group, Depends On, Deliverables.
    - **Dependency graph** — Mermaid diagram showing the DAG.
    - **Critical path** — which chain of sequential tasks is the longest.

### Phase 7: Write the Assembly Guide

16. Create `.workflow/plan/assembly-guide.md` using the [assembly-guide template](../templates/assembly-guide.md). Include:
    - **Project output folder** — the folder name from step 8.
    - **Final structure** — a tree diagram showing the exact folder/file layout the final product must have inside `<project-name>/`.
    - **Assembly order** — which deliverables to combine first, second, etc.
    - **Merge instructions** — for each assembly step, explain exactly how to combine the files (e.g., "import X into Y", "copy file to directory Z", "append section to file"). All output paths must be inside `.workflow/staging/<project-name>/`.
    - **Verification steps** — concrete commands or checks the Integrator should run after each assembly step (e.g., `run npm run build`, `open index.html in browser`, `check that all routes return 200`).
    - **Tool usage guide** — explain which tools to use for verification (linter, type-checker, browser, test runner) and how.
    - **Final delivery checklist** — what the completed product should look like.
    - **Cleanup rules** — the Integrator must NOT place any files directly in the project root; everything goes inside `<project-root>/<project-name>/`.

### Phase 8: Report Completion

17. Report to the user:
    - Total number of tasks created.
    - Number of parallel groups.
    - The critical path.
    - The project output folder name.
    - "The plan is ready. Workers can now pick up tasks."

## Output Checklist

Before finishing, verify you have created **all** of these:

- [ ] `.workflow/board.json` — with all tasks, `version: 1`
- [ ] `.workflow/plan/master-plan.md` — with DAG diagram
- [ ] `.workflow/plan/assembly-guide.md` — with merge + verification steps
- [ ] `.workflow/tasks/task-NNN/spec.md` — one per task
- [ ] `.workflow/tasks/task-NNN/deliverables/` — empty directory per task
